[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello.
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
The ancients knew a lot
about the soul and ascension.
They believed our soul
embodies the quality
of eggness, the power of
becoming golden beings.
The egg contains within
itself all the essentials
for development.
If we are the microcosm
of the macrocosm,
then our tiny egg must
contain within it the secrets
of the universal cosmic egg.
By the right methods,
the power of our soul
can be aligned with the
powers of the great world egg,
and we can ascend.
Meditation, yoga,
prayer, visualization all
align the soul with
its highest powers.
Then there is the understanding
of where our soul comes from.
How did our soul
get into our body?
Without an understanding
of our soul,
many think we're powerless.
We will continue
to strive for power
and will be motivated by and
addicted to the love of power.
With the understanding
of our soul,
we gain the power of love.
So how are our souls created?
Where did our soul come from?
And how do they
enter into our body?
The answer is there
are as many views
as there are directions--
north, south,
east, west, down, inner, outer.
And in order to get
a comprehensive view
of how our soul was created,
we must go in all directions.
The reward for our
search is immense.
In the Gospel of
Thomas, the disciples
said to Jesus, "Tell us
how our end will be."
And Jesus said, "Have
you discovered, then,
the beginning, that
you look for the end?
For where the beginning
is, there will the end.
And blessed is he who will take
his place in the beginning.
He will know the end and
will not experience death."
Exploring the origin or
beginning of our soul,
that is the key to
overcoming our addiction
to power and our greatest
fear, the fear of death itself.
It is also the key
to immortality.
Discovering the
origins of the soul
is a question for metaphysics.
This is because science,
physics, hasn't yet
detected the soul
existing in experiments.
Science is based on verifiable
and repeatable testing
or experiments done in
a laboratory setting
and, therefore,
presently has almost
nothing to say about the
soul one way or the other.
To answer the
questions of the soul
requires an entirely new
science and different physics
than we presently have.
But the good news
is, this is emerging.
This new science is part
of our present awakening.
At the core of this new
science is the search
for the God particle.
The finding of elusive
Higgs boson, or God
particle, as it's called, by the
Large Hadron Collider at CERN
in 2012 has been called the
greatest scientific discovery
of the 21st century.
It gave scientists
keys to unlocking
the origins of the universe
and how it was created.
It has also triggered
global discussions
on the convergence of
science and spirituality
and possibly the
origins of our souls.
Like the soul, the Higgs
boson, the God particle,
is considered a
packet of energy that
is associated with an invisible
background energy field called
the Higgs field, which
is theorized to pervade
the universe, just like the
idea of the Holy Spirit.
This Higgs field is
responsible for imparting mass
to all the other elementary
particles in our universe
through a process known
as the Higgs mechanism.
The thing is, mystics say
exactly the same thing
about our soul.
Our soul is what
gives matter life.
This Higgs mechanism
is all physics, though,
say scientists.
There's no divine
intervention whatsoever,
nothing spiritual going on.
A correlating theory
to the God particle
is the theory of
supersymmetry, which is also
affected by the Higgs discover.
This idea posits that every
known particle in the universe
has a super particle
with slightly
different characteristics.
The funny thing is this
mirrors the gnostic view
that the soul also
has a super-partner,
a celestial counterpart with
heavenly characteristics.
So there are some very
interesting parallels
between the Holy Spirit
and the Higgs field,
and the God particle and the
divine particle, our soul.
In the introduction to his
book "The God Particle," which
is the authoritative
book on the subject,
Dr. Leon Lederman
said that he wanted
to call the God particle
the Goddamn particle
because it has been so
elusive and difficult to find.
The same thing can
be said of our soul.
Dr. Lederman went on to say
that what they were really
doing at CERN in building
the Large Hadron Collider,
this 17-mile ring,
which was the most
expensive and sophisticated
machine on Earth,
was recreating the ancient
story of the tower of Babel.
That got my attention, as the
Tower of Babel, also called
the Stairway to
Heaven, can clearly
be viewed as some form of a
soul portal, or a stargate.
Building and ascending
this tower within
is also a metaphor for
the soul's journey,
as is the building of the Large
Hadron Collider, the particle
accelerator at CERN.
So I went to CERN near
Geneva, Switzerland in 2007,
looking for evidence
that they were actually
building a stargate
and maybe looking
for the secrets of
the soul and that this
would be telegraphed in the
art and symbolism found there.
I happen to be on one
of the last public tours
in the cathedral, as the room
housing the Atlas detector was
known before the Large
Hadron Collider was
sealed and switched on.
The Atlas detector is the
world's largest machine.
It's actually a giant camera
built to see the God particle
and was accessed
via this blue door.
The Large Hadron
Collider's purpose
is to smash protons moving at
99.999% of the speed of light
into each other and so recreate
the conditions a nano fraction
of a second after the Big Bang.
Then Atlas could take a
picture of this event.
I thought the eight-spoked
wheel of the Atlas detector
looked exactly like eight-spoked
wheel the Mayans said
symbolized the
galactic center and out
of which Maya scholar John Major
Jenkins proposed Quetzalcoatl,
the Mayan savior, would emerge.
The God particle's
discovery in 2012
accelerated the shift in
consciousness the Mayans said
would occur in that
year when Quetzalcoatl
would return from an opening
in the center of the Milky Way
galaxy.
I also was kind of curious
to see that Atlas also
resembled the geometric pattern
of an eight-spoked Tibetan
mandala, or Dharma wheel,
the wheel of transformation.
The eight spokes of the wheel
symbolize the noble Eightfold
Path set up by the
Buddha in his teachings
to discern-- no pun intended,
or perhaps pun intended--
the true nature of reality.
The eight-petaled lotus, seen
in Buddhist meditation mandalas,
symbolizes the Eightfold
Path, the good law,
and cosmic harmony,
and is regarded
as the egg of the world.
During my visit to
CERN, I remember
stepping off the elevator
that took us deep underground
and being stopped dead in
my tracks by this sign.
"Recreating the conditions
just after the Big Bang."
This was astonishing to me,
because in Jewish prophecy when
the Messiah appears,
he will reveal
the light that's shown during
the first week of creation.
This sounded to me exactly like
what they're doing at CERN.
In the book Genesis,
this time period
is referred to as the
six days of creation.
And according to
Jewish mythology,
the building material
for all human beings
was created at this time.
This may have been
the exact moment
that our souls were created.
Now, again, I'm not saying
that the God particle
is the same as our soul.
But it is in the same
soup at the same time.
And the scientists
at CERN are looking
at the exact moment
in time when our souls
were said to be created and
are describing the God particle
in terms that fit the soul.
And as I walked around
CERN, I could only
wonder what they might
discover about our soul there
and if the new
physics is actually
the physics of the soul.
I found spectacular
art at CERN that
actually relates to the soul.
At CERN, a dove, which
is the symbol of peace
or the Holy Spirit
in Christianity,
is seen spraying
the God particle.
That inspires me,
because it's exactly
like Leonardo's
painting of the dove
spraying the Holy Spirit
at the baptism of Christ.
Another example is
the icon, or logo,
of CERN's particle
physics newsletter,
which is a stylized version of
the decay of the God particle.
It fits beautifully over the
Transfiguration of Jesus,
where we see the three rays
that indicate enlightenment.
This statue of the lord
of the ring or dance,
who stamps out
ignorance, was a gift
from the Department
of Atomic Energy
from the government of India.
The inscription reads, "Oh,
omnipresent the embodiment
of all virtues, the creator
of this cosmic universe,
the king of dancers, who dances
the [INAUDIBLE] in twilight,
I salute thee."
In the Indian knowledge system
going back to 7,000 years,
the cosmic egg is
known as Hiranyagarbha,
meaning a golden-hued womb.
And the Big Bang is expressed
as Brahmanda Visphotak
or universal explosion.
The resulting
cosmic soup has been
described as one in which
the subatomic particles,
such as quarks and gluons,
are floating freely
without the influence
of any force
upon them until the presence
of the God particle, the Higgs
boson, creates an energy field
in which they interact and gain
mass.
So, yes, the God
particle and the soul
are strikingly intertwined.
And some believe
our souls are not
formed until the
Holy Spirit interacts
with mass, meaning our bodies.
So why is it that every time a
new discovery on the frontiers
of science is made
there is already
a preexisting parallel event in
ancient stories about the soul?
For example, I have shown that
the way the ancient Egyptians
portrayed the soul's
ascension, its ascension shift,
the Ark of the Millions of
Years, or Ship of Eternity,
precisely matches the way modern
science portrays a wormhole,
tells me that scientists
working at the farthest
edges of science would
benefit from ancient knowledge
of the soul, that
is, if they want
to build a bridge from
the material world
to the immaterial world,
from standard physics to soul
physics.
This new science that
we are now discovering
is the lost science
of ascension.
So now let's turn
to ancient theories
about how our souls were
created and how they entered
into our physical bodies.
We can't possibly come
to an ultimate answer,
but we can overview
the key perspectives.
No matter if you're Jewish,
Christian, Muslim, Buddhist,
Hindu, or believe an ancient
alien intelligent design,
your belief in how the soul
was created or imparted
into your body will fall
into one of these categories.
Basically, you either
believe God created your soul
and put it in the body, your
parents generated your soul,
or you did it yourself.
One view of how
the soul is created
is called traducianism,
or the theory
that a soul is generated
with the physical parents
along with the physical body.
From the Latin word "traducio",
which means a transmission
or transfer, traducianism is
the generation and transmission
of the children's
soul by the parents.
Support for traducianism
is in the Bible.
It's found in Genesis
2:7, where God formed man
from the dust of the ground
and breathed the breath of life
into Adam, causing Adam
to become a living soul.
Scripture nowhere records God
performing this action again.
This soul transference
through breath
is expressed in art as God
beaming light, or breath,
to Adam, or even Adam
enfolded in light.
This is also the subject of
Michelangelo's masterpiece,
"The Creation of Adam"
in the Sistine Chapel.
The image of the near-touching
hands of God and Adam
has become iconic of humanity.
In fact, it is one of the
most reproduced paintings
in human history.
God's right arm is outstretched
to impart the spark of life
from his own finger
into that of Adam,
whose left hand
mirrors that of God's.
The message here is that we
are made in the image of God,
and God transfers the soul
into our body upon birth.
The thing is that the brain
is considered the seat
of the soul of the human body.
And Michelangelo portrays God
activating Adam's divine spark,
his soul, through
thought, and God
manifests in a cloud that is
shaped just like a human brain.
Alternatively, it
has been observed
that the red cloth around God
in Michelangelo's painting
has the shape of a human uterus.
One art historian has
called it a uterine mantle
and that the scarf hanging
out, colored green,
could be a newly
cut umbilical cord.
Interestingly, a group
of Italian researchers
published in "Mayo
Clinic Proceedings"
an article where the images of
the mantle and the postpartum
uterus were overlapped.
And according Enrico
Bruschini, there
is an interesting hypothesis
that presents the creation
scene as an idealized
representation
of the physical birth of
man, only in this view,
our soul comes not through
thought, but from the uterus.
Following this
feminine perspective
leads us to some very
interesting places.
For example, Hildegard
of Bingen beautifully
portrayed the
transference of the soul
from the celestial
realms directly
into the womb via a
conduit, or umbilical cord.
In her painting, we see
several figures holding
bowls with cheese and
a golden umbilical cord
upon which the soul rides.
Judaism, Christianity, and
Islam teach that not only
Adam's soul, but his
sin, or imperfection,
were also transferred or
transmittal to all other humans
by heredity and as a
psychological story.
This sin was incurred when
Eve spoke with a serpent,
and they realized
they were naked.
Eve cracked the reptilian
code, so to speak,
and humanity paid the price.
Adam's sin, we are told,
affects all man, both physically
and spiritually.
This makes sense only
if the body and soul
both come from the parents,
be they Adam and Eve
or the Annunaki or
some other being.
After the fall of
Adam and Eve and they
were barred from
the Tree of Life,
a gate was placed
at the east of Eden
in the Judeo-Christian story.
This fall is the basis
for Western civilization
and our drive to return to
Eden and our original state
of perfection as light beings.
Because in the mystical
Jewish tradition,
Adam and Eve were
originally beings of light.
After Adam and Eve
were evicted from Eden,
this is when humanity were given
coats of skin, not animal skin,
but our human skin.
And our ultimate soul
quest is to transcend
our biology, our flesh, and
return to our original state
as perfected light beings.
This teaching proposes
that we're actually
shells of our former,
original existence.
Yet we are all capable
of purifying our soul,
coming out of our
shell, so to speak,
and reacquiring our
original light bodies.
The weakness of
traducianism as a theory
is that the Bible is unclear
how an immaterial soul can
be generated through an
entirely physical process.
traducianism can only be
true if the body and soul
are inextricably
connected if they're one.
In contrast with
traducianism is the idea
of creationism of the soul.
This is the view
that God directly
creates a new soul when every
human being is conceived.
Creationism was upheld by
many early church fathers
and is a biblical concept.
The Bible actually
differentiates the origin
of the soul from the
origin of the body.
So if God creates
each individual soul
at the moment it is needed, the
separation of the body and soul
is the correct viewpoint.
However, the critique
against creationism
is that it has God continually
creating new human souls,
while the book of
Genesis clearly indicates
that God stopped creating.
Both the traducianist view
and the creationist view
agree that the soul does not
exist prior to conception.
That means we're free floating
somewhere else in the cosmos
before we take on our
physical incarnation.
But as soon as
conception takes place,
a soul is attached to the body.
This seems to be the clear
teaching of the Bible, anyway.
This suggests that before
birth, the soul is not on Earth,
but after conception,
it is woven
into the matrix of Earth life.
In this view, whether God
creates a new human soul
at the moment of conception
or whether God designed
the human reproductive process
to also reproduce a cell,
God is ultimately
responsible for the creation
of each and every human soul.
A third view of soul
creation is the concept
that God created all human
souls at the same time
and attaches a soul
to a human being
at the moment of conception.
This view holds that there is
a sort of a warehouse of souls
in heaven, where God stores
souls that await a human body
to be attached to.
The thing is, this view is
not biblically supported
and is criticized
as being too New Age
or hinting at reincarnation,
which is a concept disavowed
by Christianity.
In the Judeo-Christian
tradition,
the soul lives
its life and then,
according to what he believes
or does during this life,
he either goes to eternal
hell or eternal heaven
to live with the other perfected
ones, as they are described.
But according to others outside
the Judeo-Christian tradition,
humanists and
scientists, for example,
the individual soul comes
into being at conception
due to natural causes,
lives, and then at death
ceases to exist.
In this view, we're worm food
when we're dead, and that's it.
But another view rejects
all the previous views
we've just discussed.
And that is Buddhism.
As explained on Buddhanet.net,
traducianism gives rise
to too many ethical problems.
If a good God really
creates each of us,
Buddhists ask, then
how do we explain
why so many people are
born with deformities
or why billions of children are
miscarried just before birth
or they're stillborn?
Another problem
that Buddhists have
with the Judeo-Christian-Islamic
explanation
is that it seems very unjust
that a person should suffer
eternal pain and hell for what
they did in just 60 or 70 years
on Earth.
Does 60 or 70 years of
non-belief or immoral living
really deserve eternal torture?
Likewise, is 60 or 70 years of
good living enough of an effort
for eternal bliss in heaven?
The second explanation
is better than the first
and has more scientific
evidence to support it,
but it still leaves several
really important questions
unanswered.
Buddhism offers
another explanation
of where soul came from
and where we're going.
When we die, the mind,
with all its tendencies,
preferences,
abilities, memories,
and characteristics that have
been developed and conditioned
in this life and all
others reestablishes itself
in a fertilized egg.
Thus, the individual
grows, is reborn,
and develops
personality, conditioned
both by the mental
characteristics that
have been carried over and
by the new environment.
Our soul's personality
will change
and be modified by conscious
effort and programming factors
like our education,
parental influence, culture.
And then once again at
death, we reestablish ourself
in a new fertilized egg.
This process of dying and
being reborn in one egg
after another will continue
until the conditions that
cause it, this rebirth, mostly
craving and ignorance, cease.
So what decides where
we will be reborn?
In Buddhism and Hinduism, the
most important factor, but not
the only one, influencing
where we will be reborn
and what sort of life
we will have is karma.
The work "karma" means
action and refers
to our intentional
mental actions.
It's the sum of our actions
and intentions in this
and all previous
states of existence.
In other words, what we
are is determined very much
by how we have thought
and acted in the past.
Likewise, our intentions,
how we think and act now,
will influence how we
will be in the future.
The endless knot,
or eternal knot,
represents the interwoven and
ever-changing spiritual path
of the soul.
Another symbol, the Ouroboros,
or serpent biting its tail,
also symbolizes the
beginning and the end
or the eternal round
of reincarnation.
The lotus symbolically
represents karma
in many ancient traditions.
A blooming lotus flower
is one of the few flowers
that simultaneously
carries seeds
inside itself while it blooms.
Therefore, the seed is
symbolically seen as cause,
and the flower is the effect.
The lotus is also
considered as a reminder
that one can grow even
from mud, share good karma,
and remain unstained, even
in murky circumstances where
there is suffering.
To Buddhists, our soul is
the jewel in the lotus.
It may even be the mysterious
blue stone in the lotus
that the Annunaki sought.
And when we can be reborn,
literally and figuratively,
the lotus is the representation
of our reincarnation,
when the soul is reborn
in another world.
The gentle, loving
type of person
tends to be reborn
in a heaven realm
or as a human being
who has a predominance
of pleasant experiences.
The anxious, worried, or
extremely cruel type of person
tends to be reborn
in a hell realm
or as a human being
who has a predominance
of painful experiences.
So the message is we're
not doomed by our karma.
We can change it.
And when we do, instead
of being reborn,
the mind attains a
state called nirvana,
and this is the ultimate
goal of Buddhism
and the purpose of life.
We will choose to be
reborn again and again
and again as cosmic eggs
until we reach nirvana.
We become lotus-born
cloud-riders,
like the light-body guru
Padmasambhava or Jesus.
Nirvana is actually heaven
to the Christians, when
the cosmic particles in the
body of the cosmic Christ
are reunited.
This is the resurrected
Christ and perfected
souls in the dome of the
baptistery in Florence, Italy.
The octagon that we
see here symbolizes
rebirth and resurrection
and corresponds
with the eightfold noble
path and the eightfold path
of the soul.
As we contemplate the divine
particle within us, the God
particle, our
soul, and the field
out of which this
jewel emerge, we
can see the jewel,
or God particle,
in the heart of the eight-spoked
Atlas detector at CERN.
We can see that it's just
like the opening of a lotus.
In March of 2016,
indications of a new physics
may have been spotted at CERN.
Scientists there say they might
have spotted the first traces
of physics beyond the
standard model, which
traces the structure of matter.
The Beauty meson, a
new elementary particle
that decays in a charmed
particle, they say,
could poke a hole in
the standard model.
This is one more sure sign
of our cosmic awakening,
but there is much,
much more to come.
Until next time, stay
humble, let your light shine,
and namaste.
This is William Henry.
Thank you for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]